This project is intended for students who do not have prior experience with
UNIX and the C programming language, or would like to refresh their knowledge
before attempting the later projects. The project will introduce the UNIX
operating system, the vi editor, the gnuplot plotting program and basic C
programming. The first few pages of this project are intended to be used as a
reference. You will become familiar with these commands as you use them in the
practical sessions.

The Unix operating system is widely used in both servers and workstations.
There are many variants of the Unix operating system which come from different
vendors (e.g Sun Microsystems' Solaris, IBM's AIX, etc.). You will be using
the Windows PCs in the computing lab (or your own computer) to log into a
server running Linux, an open-source implementation of the Unix operating
system.

There are two editors available on the Linux server: vi and nano.  The vi
editor has two modes of operation and takes some getting used to at first. It
is worth leaning vi, as it ubiquitous on Unix systems and very powerful.
However, if you find that trying to learn vi is slowing you down, you can use
nano which has an interface similar to the Windows notepad.

For many of you this will be your first experience of using a Unix
workstation. There are many different exercises in this section. Don't think
that you have to complete them all in the first class. The idea is that you
become familiar with these at your own pace. If all of this is very new to
you, you should plan on spending extra time on these exercises before the next
class.
